cheatsheet.md, before:

# Em's Commandline Cheat Sheet


## In this cheatsheet you will learn about:
- Terminal command-line functions
- Git command-line functions 
 
# Terminal Command-Line Functions 

## Basics 

```~``` (Tilde) - This is your home directory


```.```(Single period) Curent directory 


```..``` (Double period) Parent directory 

## Changing Directory 

```cd``` - Home directory 


``` cd [folder]``` - Change directory to any folder e.g. cd Documents. 

```cd ~``` - Home directory 

```pwd``` - Shows your working directory 

```cd ..``` - Moves up to the parent directory 


## List Directory 

```ls``` - Displays the name of files and subdirectories in the directory

```ls -a``` - Lists all entries including those with .(period) and ..(double period)

## File and Directory Management 

```mkdir``` - Creates a new, empty directory whose name is defined by path. 


```touch``` - Create, change and modify timestamps of a file. 


```mv``` - Move and rename files. 

```rm``` - Removes a folder or file. 

```rm -R``` - Removes a folder and its contents. 

## Useful shortcuts

```Tab``` - Auto-Complete file and folder names


```Ctrl + L``` - Clear the screen. 



# Git Command-Line Functions 








Hopefully with this help you should be feeling like this:

<img src="smiley-image.png" alt="smiley-face" width="200"/>

Commit message:

Information added to the git command in line section

cheatsheet.md, after:

# Em's Commandline Cheat Sheet


## In this cheatsheet you will learn about:
- Terminal command-line functions
- Git command-line functions 
 
# Terminal Command-Line Functions 

## Basics 

```~``` (Tilde) - This is your home directory


```.```(Single period) Current directory 


```..``` (Double period) Parent directory 

## Changing Directory 

```cd``` - Home directory 


``` cd [folder]``` - Change directory to any folder e.g. cd Documents. 

```cd ~``` - Home directory 

```pwd``` - Shows your working directory 

```cd ..``` - Moves up to the parent directory 


## List Directory 

```ls``` - Displays the name of files and subdirectories in the directory

```ls -a``` - Lists all entries including those with .(period) and ..(double period)

## File and Directory Management 

```mkdir``` - Creates a new, empty directory whose name is defined by path. 


```touch``` - Create, change and modify timestamps of a file. 


```mv``` - Move and rename files. 

```rm``` - Removes a folder or file. 

```rm -R``` - Removes a folder and its contents. 

## Useful shortcuts

```Tab``` - Auto-Complete file and folder names


```Ctrl + L``` - Clear the screen. 


# Git Command-Line Functions 

```Git init <directory> ``` - Creates an empty Git repository in specified directory. 

```Git status``` - Git status List which files are staged, unstaged, and untracked.


```Git add . ``` -  Adds a change in the working directory to the staging area. 


```Git log``` - Displays the entire commit history using the default format. 

```Git commit -m"INFO ON CHANGES"``` - Git commit captures a look at the project's currently staged changes. The '-m' symbolises message which should include some information on the changes being committed within the double quotation marks.

```Git push``` - The git push command is used to upload content to a remote repository.



Hopefully with this help you should be feeling like this:

<img src="smiley-image.png" alt="smiley-face" width="200"/>
